Eggforce Weekly Writeup \#1 {.p-name}
===========================

Hi! Welcome to the first edition of EWW.

* * * * *

### Eggforce Weekly Writeup \#1 {#5fa3 .graf .graf--h3 .graf--leading .graf--title name="5fa3"}

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*pAZN_XF0aq7LeVOg25syhA.png)

Banner courtesy of POA:
[https://gitcoin.co/grants/92/eggforce-new-idle-game-on-poa-core-2](https://gitcoin.co/grants/92/eggforce-new-idle-game-on-poa-core-2)

Hi! Welcome to the first edition of EWW.

EWW is the development blog for our next idle game, Eggforce.

(In other words, this is a notepad to jot down ideas and concepts.)

We’re early, so any feature written about is subject to change, and
numbers are still up in the air. See the blog as an attempt to give you
insight into what the game will be, rather than a precise roadmap.

Now that we’re on the same page, let’s dig into the current vision for
the game.

* * * * *

### THE BASICS {#413d .graf .graf--h3 .graf--leading name="413d"}

Eggforce will be an incremental game: you collect several types of
units, through paying for them with a resource creatively named
“Eggforce”.

Your units produce Eggforce passively, with which you can buy even more
units.

Your units can explore various territories, to gain more Eggforce and
other resources. Explorations are direct actions. They can yield greater
rewards, but come with risks.

You will be able to upgrade your units, raising their production
efficiency or their ability to explore. There will be varied types of
upgrades: some specific to an unit type, some shared amongst all your
units. Some bought with Eggforce, some bought with POA.

* * * * *

### POANOMICS {#5804 .graf .graf--h3 .graf--leading name="5804"}

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*idpchcaJNLjlVsXfOMo9sg.png)

This picture is a valid economics diploma. Sign at the bottom

All POA spent in-game goes to various pots players can claim. No funny
business here — we redistribute everything.

One of these pots will be a “deposit” pot. Throw your hard-earned
Eggforce into the deposit pot; a few hours later, you get a POA reward
proportional to the Eggforce you put in, compared to the Eggforce
everyone else put in.

-

Spending POA on the game will give you Poacorns in return, at a fixed
rate. These tokens can be used on specific upgrades, but also frozen for
POA rewards at regular intervals.

-

Finally, the last pot will be tied to a specific feature of the game:
Ascensions.

* * * * *

### ASCEND! {#37cc .graf .graf--h3 .graf--leading name="37cc"}

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*9zQptsEPH6Q-BP6Lyak7aw.jpeg)

Early alpha game footage

Blockchain idle games tend to hit a roadblock: because your rewards
depend on your production, players who get a lead start recycle their
early rewards into upgrades, compounding their production. After a
while, there’s no hope for new entrants, and the game inevitably
collapses.

**Ascensions solve this in Eggforce.**

Once players reach a certain amount of units, they can choose to Ascend.
Ascensions reset all the units the player own to 0. In exchange, the
player receives a large POA reward, and a permanent boost to his
production.

Thanks to the dedicated Ascension pot to draw from, there is always
incentive for a player in the lead to Ascend. Once they do so, newer
players get to catch up and claim larger shares of the deposit pot.

Players can go through as many Ascensions as they want. However, the
cost to Ascend is exponential.

In essence, everyone gets their turn: early players get a chance to
claim part of the pot first, but later on, a new player will have a much
easier time Ascending than an early adopter on his 3rd or 4th Ascension.

* * * * *

### SNAILGANGS {#fd1b .graf .graf--h3 .graf--leading name="fd1b"}

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*pg4NPRffW3tN4yArm0m8oA.jpeg)

No “guild” or “clan” here. Thug Lyfe

Eggforce will feature a fixed number of gangs. Each gang has one leader;
the leader position will be a “hot potato” paid in Poacorns — anyone can
pay a given cost and become the leader of a gang, after which that cost
multiplies. Then, the cost lowers over time.

(Exact numbers to be determined!)

In Eggforce, gangs will not face off against each other in dance
contests. Instead, gang life is mostly about cooperation: each gang has
a global upgrade tree, using Poacorns.

Every gang member can contribute to their upgrade tree by giving
Poacorns. The gang leader chooses which upgrades to pick, and those
upgrades are shared globally.

Upgrade trees can be reset at will, for a Poacorn cost.

Gangs are another feature that will help ensure later entrants aren’t
overly penalized: joining the game after a while makes it more likely
your gang will have a developed upgrade tree, letting you progress
faster.

* * * * *

#### That’s all for today. Thanks for reading! {#2068 .graf .graf--h4 .graf--leading name="2068"}

Let’s keep those updates (relatively) short and sweet, so you’re not
bludgeoned with a dozen new concepts at once.

Have no worry, there’s more to talk about.

Next week: a detailed look into units and explorations, as well as new
changes.

* * * * *

*Be the first to know any Eggforce news by
following*[*https://twitter.com/EtherSnailFarm*](https://twitter.com/EtherSnailFarm)*(Eggforce
news optional)*

*Fancy a chat? Join us
at*[*https://discordapp.com/invite/JU8P4Ru*](https://discordapp.com/invite/JU8P4Ru)

By [Snail King](https://medium.com/@thesnailking) on [April 4,
2019](https://medium.com/p/85131656bbd4).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@thesnailking/eggforce-weekly-writeup-1-85131656bbd4)

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on April 20, 2019.
